Improving the Docs! (#42)
AlexsLemonade/refinebio-py: docs/quickstart.rst

Tokens will allow you to be able to download Compendia, Computed Files, and Datasets.

Creating and activating a refine.bio Token indicates agreement with refine.bio's `Terms of Use`_ and
`Privacy Policy`_ so make sure you have read and understood both before you continue.

.. _Terms of Use: https://www.refine.bio/terms
.. _Privacy Policy: https://www.refine.bio/privacy

To create a token, make an object of the Token class:

.. code-block:: python

    import pyrefinebio

    token = pyrefinebio.Token()

Then, to activate your token, call `agree_to_terms_and_conditions()` on it:

.. code-block:: python

    token.agree_to_terms_and_conditions()

Now, your Token is fully set up and will be used in any API requests made during the execution of this script.

If you want to use the same Token in future scripts, you can save it to the Config file:

.. code-block:: python

    token.save_token()

Now, the token will be automatically loaded every time you import pyrefinebio.

If you want to get access to the token that is saved to the config file in the future, you can load it:

.. code-block:: python

    token = pyrefinebio.Token.load_token()

> For more information check out the :ref:`Token` class documentation and :ref:`Config`.

Author: I think we should merge this PR and then change this section as a part of #45

Downloading Datasets
--------------------

After you set up and activate a Token you can start creating and downloading Datasets.

> pyrefinebio provides the function `download_dataset()` that makes creating and downloading Datasets super easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pyrefinebio provides the function `download_dataset()` for creating and downloading Datasets.
```
I think it's good to avoid claiming anything is easy in docs in case whoever is reading them is currently struggling with it.

It will will automatically handle every part of the creation and download process for you.

`download_dataset()` requires that you pass in the parameters `path`, `email_address`, and either `dataset_dict` or `experiments`.

* `path` is the path that the Dataset will be downloaded to. This can be a path to a directory, in which case a filename will automatically be created, or a path to a zip file. 

* `email_address` is the email address that will be notified when the Dataset is finished processing.

The parameters `dataset_dict` and `experiments` both control the Experiments and Samples that will be a part of the Dataset.

* `dataset_dict` should be used when you want to specify specific Samples to be included in the Dataset. It should be in the format:

.. code-block:: python

    dd = {
        "Experiment 1 Accession Code": [
            "Sample 1 Accession Code",
            "Sample 2 Accession Code"
        ],
        "Experiment 2 Accession Code": [
            "Sample 3 Accession Code",
            "Sample 4 Accession Code"
        ]
    }

> * `experiments` can be used when you only care about experiments. All the samples associated with the Experiments that you pass in that are downloadable will be added to the Dataset. It is just a list of Experiment accession codes or pyrefinebio Experiment objects:

Author: re-ordered this everywhere!

.. code-block:: python

    ex2 = pyrefinebio.Experiment.get("Experiment 2 Accession Code")

    exs = ["Experiment 1 Accession Code", ex2]

You can also pass in other optional parameters to alter the Dataset itself and to alter how the download process works.

* `aggregation` can be used to change how the Dataset is aggregated.

* `transformation` can be used to change the transformation of the Dataset.

* `skip_quantile_normalization` can be used to choose whether or not quantile normalization is skipped.

* `extract` can be used to choose whether the downloaded zip file should be automatically extracted.

> * `prompt` can be used to choose whether or not you should be prompted before downloading if the Dataset zip file is larger than 1 gigabyte.

Reviewer: We should list the options/defaults for these parameters. We should have the string literals they can choose from listed (found [here](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/refinebio/blob/dev/common/data_refinery_common/models/dataset.py#L22)) along with links to the docs about [aggregations](http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html?highlight=aggregation#aggregations), [skipping normalization](http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html?highlight=aggregation#skipping-quantile-normalization-for-rna-seq-experiments), and [transformations](http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html?highlight=aggregation#gene-transformations).

We should also answer the question:
> If I set `extract=True`, where will it be extracted to?

Author: added extra info

Below is a simple example of downloading a Dataset using `dataset_dict`:

.. code-block:: python

    pyrefinebio.download_Dataset(
        "./path/to/dataset.zip",
        "foo@bar.com",
        dataset_dict={
            "GSE24528": [
                "GSM604796",
                "GSM604797"
            ]
        }
    )

Below is a simple example of downloading a Dataset using `experiments`:

.. code-block:: python

    pyrefinebio.download_Dataset(
        "~/path/to/dir/for/dataset/",
        "foo@bar.com",
        experiments=["GSE24528", "GSE30631"]
    )

Downloading Compendia
---------------------

You can start downloading Compendia after you set up and activate a Token.

> pyrefinebio provides the function `download_compendium()` that makes downloading Compendium results super easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pyrefinebio provides the function `download_compendium()` for downloading Compendium results.
```
Same reasoning as above.

It will will automatically search for Compendia based on organisms and download the results.

`download_compendium()` requires that you pass in the parameters `path` and `organism`. 

* `path` is the path that the Compendium will be downloaded to. This can be a path to a directory, in which case a filename will automatically be created, or a path to a zip file. 

* `organism` is the name of the Organism for the Compendium that you want to download.

You can also pass in other optional parameters to alter the type of Compendium you download.

* `version` is the Compendium version. The default is `None` which will get the latest version.

> * `quant_sf_only` can be used to choose if the Compendium is quantile normalized. Pass in True for RNA-seq Sample Compendium results or False for quantile normalized

Reviewer 2: Learn more about the different compendia here: http://docs.refine.bio/en/latest/main_text.html#refine-bio-compendia

* `extract` can be used to choose whether the downloaded zip file should be automatically extracted.

* `prompt` can be used to choose whether or not you should be prompted before downloading if the Compendium zip file is larger than 1 gigabyte.

Below is a simple example of Downloading a Compendium result:

.. code-block:: python

    pyrefinebio.download_compendium(
        "./path/to/compendium.zip",
        "DANIO_RERIO",
    )

> pyrefinebio also provides the function `download_quandfile_compendium()` which is equivalent to calling `download_compendium(quant_sf_only=True)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pyrefinebio also provides the function `download_quantfile_compendium()` which is equivalent to calling `download_compendium(quant_sf_only=True)`.
```
This should be fixed across the project:
```
$ ggrep quand
docs/quickstart.rst:168:pyrefinebio also provides the function `download_quandfile_compendium()` which is equivalent to calling `download_compendium(quant_sf_only=True)`.
docs/quickstart.rst:170:You can use this function when you want to be explicit to future users of your script that you are downloading quandfile Compendium results.
docs/quickstart.rst:172:Below is a simple example of Downloading a Compendium result using `download_quandfile_compendium()`:
docs/quickstart.rst:176:    pyrefinebio.download_quandfile_compendium(
docs/quickstart.rst:257:pyrefinebio also provides a CLI that exposes the `download_dataset()`, `download_compendium()`, `download_quandfile_compendium()`, and `help()` functions.
docs/quickstart.rst:259:Each function has its own command: `download-dataset`, `download-compendium`, `download-quandfile-compendium`, and `describe`, respectively.
pyrefinebio/__init__.py:32:    download_quandfile_compendium
pyrefinebio/high_level_functions.py:201:def download_quandfile_compendium(
pyrefinebio/high_level_functions.py:207:    """download_quandfile_compendium
pyrefinebio/script.py:173:def download_quandfile_compendium(organism, path):
pyrefinebio/script.py:181:        hlf.download_quandfile_compendium(path, organism)
tests/test_script.py:120:    @patch("pyrefinebio.script.hlf.download_quandfile_compendium")
tests/test_script.py:125:                "download-quandfile-compendium",
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This feels like an advanced usage thing. I'm not sure if this should be in quick start. @kurtwheeler what do you think?

                                                normalization for RNA-seq Samples

            extract (bool): if true, the downloaded zip file will be automatically extracted

            prompt (bool): if true, will prompt before downloading files bigger than 1GB

You can also get info on class methods by passing in `class.method` to the help function.

Here's an example:

.. code-block:: shell

    >>> import pyrefinebio
    >>> pyrefinebio.help("Sample.search")

Using the CLI
-------------

pyrefinebio also provides a CLI that exposes the `download_dataset()`, `download_compendium()`, `download_quandfile_compendium()`, and `help()` functions.

Each function has its own command: `download-dataset`, `download-compendium`, `download-quandfile-compendium`, and `describe`, respectively.

To use the CLI just type `refinebio COMMAND` into a shell.

You can pass in the option `--help` to each command to get more information about it as well.

Here's an example of downloading a Dataset using the CLI:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ refinebio download-dataset --path "./path/to/dataset.zip" --email-address "foo@bar.com" --dataset-dict '{"GSE74410": ["ALL"]}'

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should have a CLI way under each of the function headings above instead of a separate brief section.

I think CLI would be preferable than python in the absence of an R package and it is worth providing fleshed out examples for it.

Author: I added a whole page for CLI. lmk what you think!

                                    for your dataset
                                    each part of the dict can be a pyrefinebio object or an accession
                                    code as a string

            experiments (list): a list of Experiments that should be added to the dataset
                                use this parameter if you only care about the Experiments - all 
                                available samples related to each Experiment will be added  
                                the list can contain Experiment objects or accession codes as strings

            aggregation (str): how the Dataset should be aggregated - by `EXPERIMENT` or by `SPECIES`

            transformation (str): the transformation for the dataset - `NONE`, `MINMAX`, or `STANDARD`

            skip_quantile_normalization (bool): control whether or not the dataset should skip quantile
                                                normalization for RNA-seq Samples

            extract (bool): if true, the downloaded zip file will be automatically extracted

            prompt (bool): if true, will prompt before downloading files bigger than 1GB

> You can also get info on class methods by passing in `class.method` to the help function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also get information on class methods by passing in `class.method` to the help function.
```

To use the CLI just type `refinebio COMMAND` into a shell.

Each command has the option `--help` which will print out usage information and descriptions for every available option for that command.

If you want usage examples and a more in depth look at each CLI command you can also check out :ref:`Using the CLI`.

Here's an example of downloading a Dataset using the CLI:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ refinebio download-dataset --path "./path/to/dataset.zip" --email-address "foo@bar.com" --dataset-dict '{"GSE74410": ["ALL"]}'

Interacting with the API
------------------------

You can use pyrefinebio to interact with all endpoints of the refine.bio API.

Each endpoint is its own pyrefinebio class.

Most classes provide the `get()` and `search()` methods.

Use `get()` to get one refine.bio API object based on its identifying property.

Here's an example with a refine.bio Sample:

.. code-block:: python

    sample = pyrefinebio.Sample.get("GSM604797")

Use `search()` to look for refine.bio API objects based on filters.

`search()` will return a PaginatedList which can be indexed and iterated through like a regular python list.

> For more info checkout the :ref:`PaginatedList` documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information checkout the :ref:`PaginatedList` documentation.
```

If you want to get access to the token that is saved to the config file in the future, you can load it:

.. code-block:: python

    token = pyrefinebio.Token.load_token()

For more information check out the :ref:`Token` class documentation and :ref:`Config`.

Downloading Datasets
--------------------

After you set up and activate a Token you can start creating and downloading Datasets.

See :ref:`Quickstart/Setting up Tokens` for a tutorial on setting up a Token.

pyrefinebio provides the function `download_dataset()` for creating and downloading Datasets.
It will will automatically handle every part of the creation and download process for you.
You will receive the Dataset as a zip file.

`download_dataset()` requires that you pass in the parameters `path`, `email_address`, and either `dataset_dict` or `experiments`.

* `path` is the path that the Dataset will be downloaded to. You specify a path to a zip file or a directory. If you pass in a path to a directory, the name of the zip file will be automatically generated in the format `dataset-<dataset_id>.zip`.

* `email_address` is the email address that will be notified when the Dataset is finished processing.

> The parameters `experiments` and `dataset_dict` both control the which Experiments and Samples will be a part of the Dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters `experiments` and `dataset_dict` both control which Experiments and Samples will be a part of the Dataset.
```

* `experiments` can be used when you want to add specific Experiments to your Dataset. All the downloadable samples associated with the Experiments that you pass in will be added to the Dataset. 

The `experiments` parameter is just a list of Experiment accession codes or pyrefinebio Experiment objects. Here's an example:

.. code-block:: python

    ex2 = pyrefinebio.Experiment.get("<Experiment 2 Accession Code>")

    exs = ["<Experiment 1 Accession Code>", ex2]

* `dataset_dict` should be used when you want to specify specific Samples to be included in the Dataset. It should be in the format:

.. code-block:: python

    dd = {
        "<Experiment 1 Accession Code>": [
            "<Sample 1 Accession Code>",
            "<Sample 2 Accession Code>"
        ],
        "<Experiment 2 Accession Code>": [
            "<Sample 3 Accession Code>",
            "<Sample 4 Accession code>"
        ]

>     }

Reviewer: You should also mention the `"<Experiment Accession Code>": ["ALL"]` Trick here.
